# Community Connect App with AWS CI/CD pipeline

The Community Connect App is a cloud-based platform that utilizes AWS services to facilitate seamless communication and engagement between neighbors. The app provides a centralized hub for neighbors to come together and share information about local events, services, and anything else that they believe would be beneficial to their community. With the ability to set post priority and trigger email notifications for high-priority posts, residents stay informed. The AWS pipeline automates the deployment of new code releases from GitHub, ensuring a smooth and hassle-free developer and user experience.

## Architecture

The above diagram shows the architecture of the backend system and how it connects and communicates through various AWS services. Security is a key factor in the cloud environment. To ensure security, a specific IAM user is created for the application itself to access various AWS services. Only the specific required policies are attached to the user, such as SNS policy and RDS policy, so that it can access only those services.

AWS Developer tools like CodePipeline, CodeBuild, and CodeDeploy are leveraged for CI/CD pipeline. Whenever new changes are commited to the GitHub on the main branch, CodePipeline gets triggered and starts the CodeBuild phase. In this phase, it checks if all required test cases are passed and there are no conflicts. After that, a JAR file is created and uploaded to S3. Once the CodeBuild phase is completed, it moves on to CodeDeploy and deploys the application to an EC2 instance. This overall implementation refers to CI/CD (Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment) to manage a smooth development and deployment cycle.

## Application

CommunityConnect requires users to sign up by providing personal and residential details such as email, name, and apartment number, and setting up a password. The username is autogenerated. Once signed up, users can log in using their email and password. The bulletin board displays all the posts, with high-priority posts highlighted in light red. Users can create posts that are visible to all other users of CommunityConnect. They can also set a priority for their posts. If a high-priority post is made by any user, an email containing the post is sent to all users via the CommunityConnect web app. This helps to immediately inform users whenever an emergency takes place.

## Technologies Used

- AWS services for code pipeline - AWS CodeCommit, CodeBuild, CodeDeploy, CodePipeline
- Java SpringBoot Framework
- AWS RDS (MySQL)
- AWS Parameter Store
- AWS SNS (Simple Notification Service)
- AWS Lambda

Feel free to explore the repository for more details and source code.

